README.md, before:

# terraform-google-minecraft

![terraform](https://github.com/davegallant/terraform-google-minecraft/workflows/terraform/badge.svg)

This spins up a minecraft server using a static ip, a google compute instance and persistent disk. By default, a daily snapshot policy is setup. This can be disabled in the variables.

## Requirements

- [google cloud account](https://console.cloud.google.com/getting-started)

and one of the following:

- [nix](https://nixos.org/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

## Costs

If this server is always running, it will cost ~$15CAD/month.

A [12-month free trial](https://cloud.google.com/free) includes $300 in credit.

## Use

```shell
# If you have nix:
$ nix-shell

# If you do not have nix:
$ ./env.sh

$ gcloud auth application-default login
# The initialization requires an existing storage bucket that must be manually created and specified
# https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets
$ terraform init -backend-config "bucket=my-bucket"
$ terraform apply -var-file example.tfvars
```

## Notes

- By default, this uses a `n1-highcpu-2` [preemptible vm instance](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible) for cost savings. This means that the minecraft server could restart at any time (roughly every 24h), resulting in a couple minutes of downtime. This can also lead to a couple minutes of data loss depending on when game data was last written to disk. The `preemptible` flag and `machine_type` can be modified in the terraform [variables](./variables.tf). For pricing, see: https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing
- An instance group manager is used so that preemptible vm instances can be restarted

Commit message:

Set default snapshot_retention_days to 30

README.md, after:

# terraform-google-minecraft

![terraform](https://github.com/davegallant/terraform-google-minecraft/workflows/terraform/badge.svg)

This spins up a minecraft server using a static ip, a google compute instance and persistent disk.

## Requirements

- [google cloud account](https://console.cloud.google.com/getting-started)

and one of the following:

- [nix](https://nixos.org/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

## Costs

If this server is always running, it will cost ~$15CAD/month.

A [12-month free trial](https://cloud.google.com/free) includes $300 in credit.

## Use

```shell
# If you have nix:
$ nix-shell

# If you do not have nix:
$ ./env.sh

$ gcloud auth application-default login
# The initialization requires an existing storage bucket that must be manually created and specified
# https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets
$ terraform init -backend-config "bucket=my-bucket"
$ terraform apply -var-file example.tfvars
```

## Snapshots

By default, a daily incremental snapshot is scheduled. This can be disabled in the variables. The max retention of each snapshot defaults to 30 days.

## Notes

- By default, this uses a `n1-highcpu-2` [preemptible vm instance](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible) for cost savings. This means that the minecraft server could restart at any time (roughly every 24h), resulting in a couple minutes of downtime. This can also lead to a couple minutes of data loss depending on when game data was last written to disk. The `preemptible` flag and `machine_type` can be modified in the terraform [variables](./variables.tf). For pricing, see: https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing
- An instance group manager is used so that preemptible vm instances can be restarted
